what happens when you blow a bubble too
big it pops you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you in today's
video we are going to talk about the
statistics the actual metrics which will
show you is the stock market in a bubble
yes or no there's a lot to this there's
nuance and I want to break it down make
it really easy to understand let's begin
the very first thing we need to look at
is NVIDIA at the time of this recording
they reported their earnings they were
even better than the bullish analysts
were thinking it was going to be and so
of course in after hours trading this
thing goes up 9% already this stock has
gone crazy and here we go another 9% now
over the past few days there was a
little bit of concern uhoh are they
going to be able to beat their earnings
they're already going crazy and yes they
did now look when your CEO wears a
leather jacket up on St stage you know
that things are going to be oh fantastic
and when you say the word AI every four
word you're going to do well okay this
is not driven by fundamentals yes the
forward pees yeah I get that when we
talk about earnings right we have to
understand what's going on right now and
this is something that has always been
we have to look at when they report
their earnings the expectation is one
thing do they beat that expectation well
maybe they do but where did they set
that bar so that is a factor for NVIDIA
the bar wasn't necessarily set low they
exceeded that the demand for air related
stuff is very high but let's be honest
about what we call AI they're using that
term everywhere everywhere even the
stuff like a chat GPT which is AI in a
sense is not really the AI that we were
told like 5 years ago this is artificial
intelligence this is sentient this thing
is going to come alive in the night and
choke you out this is a different
scenario right now we're just like hey
put AI on the top of it and you'll get
more that's the kind of thing that we
are seeing so I need to make that
distinction so companies that are buying
from Nvidia whatever that could be okay
all these companies all around the world
they are purchasing their products they
are getting into it a lot of times just
because they want to attach AI to what
they're doing the whole game is rigged
but understand this right now that they
are seeing a lot of attention there are
other companies though like
smci that were rising up at the same
time but have been smashed down now who
knows at the time of this video things
might be different than when you're
actually watching this the next day so
keep an eye on that just understand what
o ai ai is being thrown around there
there's Nuance let's get into the other
aspects when we talk about the fearing
greed index that's one element and
they're just just slightly they're at 77
into this extreme greed scenario it's
just one indicator of many we've got the
VIX Index which is still relatively low
it's at 15 and this measures volatility
in the stock market there hasn't been
much volatility at all the market has
been pricing in a lot of cuts this year
how much 1% they expect by the end of
the year there will be at least 1% from
where we are at today and that's what
this Market is riding on they are right
like where the market is today where all
these stocks are today are because of
what's going on with the FED interest
rates now what are are we seeing here is
this a bubble like how do we measure
that well I want to take it and compare
it to something else because just seeing
Nvidia stock going up 10% 20% 30%
hundreds of percent doesn't necessarily
mean it's a bubble
we've got to compare it to other things
yes we can look at the forward PE ratios
that Everyone likes to note but there
are so many other things so let's um get
into that I could show you a few things
total returns in USD since March 2015
index to 100 the Magnificent 7 index
okay so you know that the S&P 500 the
NASDAQ the stocks 600 to a lesser
degree this this these indexes have
performed very well recently right
absolutely and over time you know it's
7% is 10% whatever number you're being
quoted but look at this magnificent
7 just in this past you know year and a
half to two years we'll say it has gone
crazy absolutely crazy in the last year
and a half straight up so since 20 20 if
you even factor in that dip and you just
held on things went wild didn't they and
what has happened over this period of
time is that we have seen this
insatiable appetite for
risk there has been no slowdown in Risk
all right it was a very brief moment in
time where you know things were really
consider uh oh they're going to need to
bring interest rates up to 20% up to 50
% oh my goodness inflation won't stop as
soon as they decided that uh yeah
inflation's probably going to slow down
here that's their metrics by the way
everything turned around and that's
where we see it
today the top 10% of Stocks by size
versus the entire US Stock Market so to
my friends on finance Friday look at
this okay you could
see what has happened
it's unbelievable I mean this CH goes
back to 1926 just to give you an idea
okay and certainly we have gone way
above the
median it's not healthy you got to
understand this it's not healthy in any
way you look at it to have
stocks that just like when you look at
the broad index hey the broad index is
doing well stocks are doing well but
then you break it down and you say oh
it's really just a handful of
stocks so something is off do all of the
other stocks need to catch up to these
select
few or are those select few just too
high and you can't say look when let's
say the S&P 500 you've got 500 stocks
there are always going to be very poor
performers in there very poor even
though that might be one of the biggest
500 companies look let's let's be clear
there's always going to be those ones
that do
terribly but when we're talking about
the top 50 the top 100 if you're not
even anywhere close there's a problem
there's an issue we have more and more
and more and more
concentration people are looking for
that yield they're looking for a return
and if they're not going to get it they
are going to go into Nvidia they're
going to go into these Magnificent Seven
stocks to try to get some yield they're
saying ah you know what I'm going to
leave that one behind and leave that one
behind and I'm going to concentrate here
and the more concentration we have the
more risk think of the analogy you're on
a pond frozen over all right the pond is
completely frozen over you go on first
of all you look at it you knock on it
completely hard so you walk on it
everything everything's totally fine
you're dancing on there you're doing
cartwheels everything's all good then
your friend comes on then he invites
another person and they invite another
person and suddenly their family comes
they start bringing cattle along with
them hey a few raccoons join in why not
and as that the more people are added in
you suddenly have an issue with that
frozen over Pond that wasn't a problem
before the crowding causes the
issue that's what's going on right now
tell those raccoons to take a hike all
right for me that's a personal one for
me market cap of listed equities in G20
countries by domicile plus the
Magnificent Seven and the Seven largest
stocks in Europe for
comparison this is crazy okay just
looking at the like compare this as a
whole you could see all these the
different countries stock markets and
then compared with the second one which
is the top seven stocks in the United
States it's bigger those seven stocks
are bigger than all the other country
stocks put together
basically look at how massive massive
these stocks are each one of them they
have bigger like their values are bigger
than the GDP of many
countries like it it's it's beyond
imaginable does that mean it's a bubble
no but when I see breadth breadth being
how uh
widespread is um how widespread is is
basically the growth of these stocks
it's it's not very good right now that's
what we're being told the Magnificent
seven profets now exceed almost every
country in the world almost every
country isn't it crazy to see this there
was a lot of this happening in the year
2000 we know that but you know I don't
want to be the one to say it you know
this time is different but that does not
mean it doesn't you know eventually end
up in a problem let's be honest about
that yeah it's different there's a
different scenario right now there were
companies back then which reminded me a
lot of the spack like 2020 time frame
reminded me a lot of the Doom
bubble that that I saw the difference
like the comparison there because you
had
jpegs uh the nft thing and like why was
this becoming worth millions of dollars
like there was no explanation behind oh
this is the future you are going to want
to own digital property next to Snoop
dog I I was reading
that I can't even believe I just said
that anyway uh that's what happened and
that to me was more like the Doom bubble
because there were you know I I was I
have been in the
offices where we had former tech
companies I think there was one guy if I
remember correctly was still one guy but
the rest of that business was completely
gone this is many many years ago this is
like after Doom bubble everyone's laid
off there I think there was one guy in
that building if I remember correctly um
and that's what happens you you get the
remnant left over if there's anything I
mean
goodness uh but today there's there's
structurally different things okay
because there is value Behind These
compan apple is a very valuable company
does it need to be you know by by the
end of the year it'll be worth like7
trillion does it need to be there ah you
know that's up to you to decide all
right where should it be the level of
concentration has led some analysts to
voice their concerns over the related
risks in the US and of course we're
seeing that not just u in the United
States there is some you know
excessiveness taking place in in Europe
but it's it's not even close it's not
even close when you think about it so
those are the stocks right there um you
know stocks like Microsoft I've talking
about before to the finance Friday group
things are really
going really going wild retirements
Spike again as the stock market booms
and so people are saying hey I've made
so much money I could retire people are
in a rush to retire sometimes if the
stock market goes down though are they
going to try to get back in the
workforce I mean it's just it's crazy to
see how these things happen
um I really don't think people should
just like oh your portfolio is suddenly
worth a little bit more and you go to
retire odd you tell me what you think
would you just retire if your portfolio
is suddenly worth 20 20% and your
retirement account is it full of Nvidia
be careful
now this is the leading economic
indicators imagine just a bunch of
indicators squished together and what's
happening and these have come down down
all right and I want to show you
something so that that red area there on
the right hand side that is the month
over month and it's been bad month over
month over month however when we look at
it on a year-over-year
basis it has bottomed out and
historically when we see this it tends
to rise so the expectation here what
you're seeing here is that the worst is
over we're likely like kind of in a
recession technical recession they're
not going to admit it we know that but
bottom is sort of in and not not for the
stock market but for the economy and
then it goes up now why is this
important how is this related to the to
the stock market is that if there isn't
a recession or it's a mild recession
then companies will likely be more
inclined to hire if they're more
inclined to hire there's more money to
be spent in the economy
that could find its way into the
earnings of companies like Nvidia and
all these things and so we can push that
higher where it ends up nobody knows is
this a bubble in many metrics yes it is
does that bubble necessarily need to pop
now no it doesn't things can stretch on
for a long time what we need to see is
this you have to find out as time goes
on this will occur if the other stocks
start coming up to this crazy level or
is it more and more and more and more
concentration it's not the mag seven
anymore it's the mag six it's the five
it's the four and we have something
happens something pops so that is really
the indication that we need to find
what's going on with breadth breadth is
very important to see the stability in
this market Market in the coming days
weeks and months if you are interested
at this stuff in this stuff in depth I
cover that every Friday for two hours
two hours every single Friday the money
gps.com
SL live there will be a link in the
description as always that's where I can
cover this stuff live taking questions
going on and breaking this down so you
understand it at a deep level the real
Financial Ed Financial education that uh
quite frankly most YouTubers won't do
because doesn't get the clicks well I
appreciate you being here hit that
thumbs up button on the way out can we
get the fireworks to happen all right I
want to thank you for being here and as
always I'll see you tomorrow take care